**Tags:** [[Cloud]]

- **Scaling:** The ability to make your app evolve in order to adapt to the higher request rate that grows over time. There are two methods, horizontal and vertical scaling. Vertical scaling - the traditional approach - consists of increasing resources, by buying hardware to increase the performance of your machines for example, but this causes a problem financially because you expend more and don't necessarily get more benefits so the revenue diminishes. Horizontal scaling relies on cloning your application on multiple different machines, the advantages is more stability - for example if one station goes down the others can still serve the application - and potentially less cost.
- **Load balancing:** A layer that sits in front of your application and decides how to distribute the traffic to the hosts. Eg. round robin (iteratively), other methods include using the lowest amount of requests/connections, the lowest amount of utilization, etc.
- **Auto-scaling:** Automatically add or remove instances of our application based on the fluctuation of traffic or over-utilization for example, this works with horizontal scaling and helps save up resources.
- **Serverless:** a cloud service category where the customer can use different cloud capability types without the customer having to provision, deploy and manage either hardware or software resources, other than providing customer application code or providing customer data.
- **Event-driven architecture:** the older way - request-response model - was about synchronously (one after the other) calling the different applications of a process in the predetermined order. This creates *tight coupling* between your dependencies, it means that the main service (that calls on the other services synchronously) has to know about all the different components. EDA however, works by having the service send a message to a notification engine. Applications and services are subscribed to these notification engines, and the engine sends the message to all of these subscribed apps and services. This does decoupling, because the main service doesn't need to know about all of these sub-services. This method is sometimes called *pubsub* as in *publisher* (the main service) and *subscriber* (the sub-services).
- **Container orchestration:** They make it easier to deploy container-based applications and manage them and their traffic efficiently. Kind of like a load balancer but for containers.
- **Storage:** There are different formats. Object storage (media files, json objects, csv files, bytes, etc) is a general purpose dumping ground where you can store miscellanious types of media and then access it with an application. Block storage, volumes that scale up or down depending on how much resources you need (auto-scaling by cloud providers). Database (relational databases, noSql databases), including cache solutions for quick access but considering it a database is subjective.
- **Availability:** On average per timeframe (year, month, etc) you can expect it to not have an outage (eg. 80% availability means that 20% of the time you could have an outage). Increasing availability incorporates different cloud concepts, like horizontal scaling, hosting application instances in different availability zones, etc.
- **Durability:** It means when you store data, you store multiple copies to allow data recovery.
- **Infrastructure as code:** It's about writing code to configure the settings an infrastructure instead of manually choosing from option on a platform. Basically you write this template of code and hand it out to cloud providers and then they go to these services and do everything for you. The key difference is that the could provider used to give you a way of configuring it from a specific platform yourself (sometimes from the console), and now you write the template and they do the work. This reduces mistakes (best practices, code reviews, etc), makes it easy to clone these.
- **Cloud networks:** Allows you to isolate your resources within your cloud provider and it's an additional layer of security that you can rely on.