**Tags:** [[Statistical Programming]] [[Data Science]] [[University]]

R uses statements, as it is an interpreted language. You can do ctrl-enter on a code snippet to run it and the console will show the corresponding command and the result. `data()` outputs all the available datasets. `View(dataset)` outputs the whole dataset.

`%>%` is basically a pipe, takes the output of the previous command and enters it to the input of the coming command. `a <- 1` assigns 1 to the variable a. `db <- data.frame(a, b, c)` creates a data table with the contents of the variables a, b and c as its cells, with a, b and c being the columns. `db$a` refers to the cell containing the info of a in the table db. `db [1,1]` restricts the output to only the cell of coordinate (1,1), and `db [1,1:2]` restricts it to the cells of coordinates (1, 1 to 2), so (1,1) and (1,2).

A simple way to filter the data table is using the pipes to input the data to `select(a,b)` which filters out any columns not specified, then `filter(condition)` which filters out any row to which the specified condition does not apply. `na.omit()` removes any row that contains a null cell from the output. `mutate(attr=attr*10)` sets all the cells in the attr column to their value times 10 and outputs the table after applying these changes, `mutate(result=attr1+attr2)` creates a new column holding on each row the value of attr1+attr2 from that row. `group_by(attr)` is like the sql group by. `summarise(attr1, attr2, diff=attr2-attr1)` outputs a table containing all the columns given as arguments without mutating the actual values, basically outputs a new table depending on the arguments.

`ggplot(data=dataset, mapping=aes(x=attr1, y=attr2)) + geom_point()` outputs a simple graph with points representing coordinates x and y based on the values of attr1 and attr2 on each row, from the specified dataset. ggplot can also take pipe as input which means no need to specify the data parameter, and aes can guess x and y from the order in which you put the parameters (eg. aes(attr1,attr2)). `geom_smooth(se=F)` draws a linear model on the graph based on the point coordinates (without the grey area indicating potential error). `+ labs(title="TITLE",x="X",y="Y")` defines the title and legend and labels etc of the graph. Multipl `geom_GEOMNAME`s can be stacked upon one another to create an intricate graph. `coord_flip()` changes the orientation of the graph.