1. Adopting a 0-trust security model:
	- Multifactor authentication and strong password requirements
	- Least possible access; users shouldn't have access to more than what is strictly necessary
	- Continuous monitoring and analytics with the capability of taking measures and making decisions
2. Enhancing authentication and authorization:
	- eg. FIDO2, an authentication standard that relies on pub/priv key pairs
	- Implementing OpenID and OAuth protocols
	- Role-Based Access Control and Attribute-Based Access Control
3. Securing APIs against exploits
	- Rate limiting and throttling
	- Input validation and sanitization using JSON Schema validation


## JWT
JSON Web token: a standard for data creation that can have a signature (shared secret or pub/priv key pair) in addition to possible encryption, and its payload holds some "claims" about the client (eg. the claim can be "logged in as administrator", sent in a jwt generated by the server, and the client uses the signature method to verify the legitimacy of the sender). It is usually used between a service provider (eg. web application, but can be other kinds of things) and an identity provider (an entity that securely stores authentication data).
It is comprised of 2 parts, a header and a payload. The header identifies which algorithm is used for the signature. The payload contains the claims, of which there are a set of 7 fields defined by the jwt specification, but you can also include custom claims. The signature is generated by using the [Base64url Encoding](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Base64#URL_applications "Base64") [RFC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RFC_\(identifier\) "RFC (identifier)") [4648](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc4648) to encode both the header and payload, which are then concatenated with a period, and then the result is encrypted with a secret key, creating the signature. The token is the result of concatenating the header, payload and signature, all encoded in base64url. Avoid exposing the JWT to clinet-side JS.
**Vulnerabilities:** JSON web tokens may contain session state.  
JWT shouldn't be the only verification way, you should know the algorithms used, use an appropriate key size.
